docs(Agentic orchestration): Revamp get started (#7324)
camunda/camunda-docs: docs/guides/getting-started-agentic-orchestration.md

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The example AI agent process is a chatbot that you (the user) can interact with via a [user task form](/components/modeler/forms/camunda-forms-reference.md).
```

---

> id: getting-started-agentic-orchestration

Author: Probably for team discussion: if there are no guidelines from the marketing team, I would always try to align the page title with the URL. This helps when interlinking and provides a smoother UX design.

In Camunda, an **AI agent** refers to an automation mechanism that leverages [ad-hoc sub-processes](/components/modeler/bpmn/ad-hoc-subprocesses/ad-hoc-subprocesses.md) to perform tasks with non-deterministic behavior.

AI agents represent the practical implementation of agentic process orchestration within the Camunda ecosystem, combining the flexibility of AI with the reliability of traditional process automation.

## About this guide

In this guide, you will:

- Run Camunda 8 using [Camunda 8 SaaS](https://accounts.cloud.camunda.io/signup) or locally with [Camunda 8 Self-Managed](/self-managed/about-self-managed.md).
- Deploy and start a business process using [Web Modeler](/components/modeler/web-modeler/launch-web-modeler.md) or locally with [Desktop Modeler](/components/modeler/desktop-modeler/index.md).
- Use an [AI Agent connector](/components/connectors/out-of-the-box-connectors/agentic-ai-aiagent.md) to provide interaction and reasoning capabilities for the AI agent.
- Use an [ad-hoc sub-process](/components/modeler/bpmn/ad-hoc-subprocesses/ad-hoc-subprocesses.md) to define the tools the AI agent should use.

> Once you have completed this guide, you will have an example of an AI agent running within Camunda 8.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have completed this guide, you will have an example AI agent running within Camunda 8.
```

The following prerequisites are required to build your first AI agent:

| Prerequisite                     | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| :------------------------------- | :-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | Camunda 8 environment            | <p>To run your agent, you must have Camunda 8 (version 8.8 or newer) running using either:</p><p><ul><li><p> [Camunda 8 Self-Managed](/self-managed/about-self-managed.md). For example, see [Run your first local project](../getting-started-example).</p></li><li><p> [Camunda 8 SaaS](/components/saas/saas.md). For example, [sign up for a free SaaS trial account](https://accounts.cloud.camunda.io/signup).</p></li></ul></p>                                                                                                  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Camunda 8 environment            | <p>To run your agent, you must have Camunda 8 (version 8.8 or newer) running, using either:</p><p><ul><li><p> [Camunda 8 Self-Managed](/self-managed/about-self-managed.md). For example, see [Run your first local project](../getting-started-example).</p></li><li><p> [Camunda 8 SaaS](/components/saas/saas.md). For example, [sign up for a free SaaS trial account](https://accounts.cloud.camunda.io/signup).</p></li></ul></p>                                                                                                  |
```

## Step 2: Configure connector secrets

The example process is preconfigured to use AWS Bedrock as the model.
For authentication, it is preconfigured to use the following connector secrets:

- `AWS_BEDROCK_ACCESS_KEY`: The AWS Access Key ID for your AWS account able to call the Bedrock Converse API.
- `AWS_BEDROCK_SECRET_KEY`: The AWS Secret Access Key for your AWS account.

> How you configure these secrets depends if you are running Camunda 8 SaaS or a Self-Managed local environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will configure these secrets differently in a Camunda 8 SaaS or a Self-Managed local environment.
```
Suggestion?

- For SaaS and Self-Managed deployments, you can configure the secrets in the [Console](../components/console/manage-clusters/manage-secrets.md).
- For Camunda 8 Run, export the secrets as environment variables before starting the distribution. If you use Camunda 8 Run with Docker, add the secrets in the `connector-secrets.txt` file.

> ## Step 3: Configure the AI Agent connector (optional)

Author: I’m wondering whether we should keep this optional section. I tend to avoid including optional steps in a tutorial to maintain a safe, guided end-to-end flow. However, I don’t think it’s harmful the way it’s currently written.
